Hey welcome back to the course.
Now in this lecture we're going to talk about the subscription revenue model.
This is something that you probably are a customer of.
Do you subscribe to something like Spotfire to listen to music on a monthly basis.
Do you subscribe to services like Dropbox or Evernote.
Anything that you're paying a regular amount for usually monthly sometimes annually for a service you
are on a subscription base business.
Now when you have something like this if you've been paying attention to our previous lecture on the
freemium model it's going to look very similar.
Instead of going from free to premium we have some sort of a lead that gets converted into a subscriber.
Now the thing that we're going to throw into this lecture to make it a little bit more interesting is
what if you had three different subscription tiers How would you model something like that out.
Let's take a look.
Hey let's start with a quick sanity check first.
So it's going to look very similar right.
We might start with some sort of first group of users they may download an app or they may register
on your site but then only some of them are actually going to be really hot leads some of them are actually
going to continue to use a service or actually start using your app.
And we're just going to call that group activated.
OK.
And and out of that group you're going to be able to convert some percentage of them into subscription
customers.
So in our example if we started with the million here and 85 percent gets activated making a hundred
fifty thousand and if 2 percent are converted then you're converting 17000 subscribers and the rest
are staying as free users are continuing to use your service or come to your site.
But the 2 percent that some 10000 is paying some sort of subscription fee.
So if your subscription fee was $19 then your subscription revenue for that group of users will be 300
23000.
Now the question depends on what kind of subscription fee this is right.
Could be an annual could be a monthly.
So you know what time period that applies to is going to affect how you're looking at this revenue range.
Okay so let's see what one plans subscription model might look like.
So let's assume these are given right these monthly downloads registrations and there's a certain activation
rate we're activating that many per month.
And then the conversion rates coming from the front and we're going to also take the subscription fee.
We'll make this a monthly subscription fee right now.
And how will we then calculate in this model here.
Right.
Let it go up to 24 months Well this one's going to be pretty straightforward right.
The new monthly number of free users is going to equal to 1 minus the conversion rate that becomes subscription
users times the activated users and then the number of subscription users you can do 2 percent times
the monthly activated or you can just go the total minus the free range.
So they have to add up.
So you can do it either way.
So once you have that you can copy pace to the other columns.
Now we have the number of new subscribers right but every scriber is going to be paying a subscription
fee every month.
So we can't just look at the Monthly's so new subscribers we get to look at the cumulative subscribers
in any given month.
So in the first month the total number of subscribers will just be equal to the number of news servers
but then the second month is going to be the previous month plus the new one.
Right.
So then the cumulative is what's going to add up here.
Okay.
And then we have the 19 dollar subscription fee there.
So then the total subscription revenue in a given month is going to be the scription fee times the number
of subscribers for that given month.
So there is the simple one.
Now for those of you that are looking at this you're probably thinking Hey where's the attrition.
That's a challenge for you to add.
You should be able to do that by now.
All right.
So that was the single planned subscription model.
What if we have multiple subscription plans though how would we model that out.
Let's take a look.
So here everything up here is same as in the previous worksheet we have the same numbers but now we
have three plans.
ABC at different prices.
So if we're going to have different plans what we need then is we need to have different breakdowns
in terms of the percentage breakdown of the subscribers that fall in each plan.
Right.
So here one of the best practices when it comes to dividing in segmenting groups in you've seen me probably
do this a couple times already is to make sure that all the plans add up to 100 percent.
And the way to do that if you're making them as inputs is to leave one as a calculation.
So if I have a here and B here as inputs then the last one is going to be one minus the sum of these
right so I subtract the other two.
That way the combination of all three always adds up to 100 percent.
So that's one way to avoid kind of the error if you put in the wrong numbers and you end up having 100
plus percent are not 100 percent.
And that would be an error in your model.
OK so then now how do we calculate the rest of these.
So these are going to be fairly straightforward.
Right so the number of subscribers in each plan is going to equal to the total number of subscribers
times the actual percentage that falls into that group.
So notice the references here right.
I want to make sure I've referenced this row only.
But for these here I want to reference just this column by I do want it to move down in terms of the
formulas.
When I copy it down the line.
So if I copy this then I can paste the rest and it will calculate the number of subscribers in each
plan for any given month.
Then the revenue is going to be the subscription fee for that Flann times the number of subscribers
in that plan in that month.
So now we can copy this down and copy this across as well and we'll have these different revenues for
these different plans.
And if we take the sum of all these now we have the total subscription revenue.
So there you go.
Pretty simple to build out you know a one or even a multiple planned subscription revenue model.